
# Hypothetical 2D Materials (composition) Database
#### by Dr. Jianjun Hu

## Manual

### Background 
talk about 2D materials importance


### The database generation Method

We trained a machine learning model for classifying a given compositio into 2D or non-2D materials [^1]. We then apply this model to the 3 Million hypothetical materials compositions generated by the MATGAN algorithm as described in [^2]. 

#### the 2D materials machine learning classifier: How it works


### Performance and Limitations

Please note that the compositions in this databse is hypothetical and have no guarantee for its synthesizability of structural stablity. 

### Using the Database Search function

#### Entering Inputs

Practically, the procedure for getting predictions consists in 3 steps

1. Pick elements: Select on the periodic table what constituent elements comprise the chemical space you are interested in.
   For instance if you want to make predictions for battery materials based on Li, Mn and O, you should pick those three elements.
2. After the results are returned, you can further narrow down the search by typing in the top right input box with more specific partial formula, e.g. Li2
3. Interpret the results.
   

#### Interpreting the Results

The results pages provides a set of potential 2D materials compositions as recommended by our 2D materials classifier. 



### Future features

In the future, we want to generate more 2D materials candidates and also possibly predict their crystal structures using our crystal structure prediction algorithm.s

### Citations

To cite the Structure Predictor App, please reference the following works:

- G. Hautier, V. Ehrlacher, C.C. Fischer, A. Jain, G. Ceder, Data Mined Ionic Substitutions for the Discovery of New Compounds, Inorganic Chemistry, vol. 50, 2011, pp. 656-663.
- A. Jain, G. Hautier, C. J. Moore, S. P. Ong, C. C. Fischer, T. Mueller, K. A. Persson, and G. Ceder, A high-throughput infrastructure for density functional theory calculations, Computational Materials Science, vol. 50, 2011, pp. 2295-2310.

[^1]: 10.1038/nmat2321
[^2]: 10.1021/ic102031h
[^3]: 10.1021/cm100795d
[^4]: 10.1038/nmat1691

### Authors

- Geoffroy Hautier
- Anubhav Jain
